---
title: '**The World Bank Statistical Performance Index**'
---

Assessing country-level statistical performance on a global scale

September 2019

Contents {#contents .TOCHeading}
========

[**1.** **Introduction** 3](#introduction)

[**2.** **Statistical Capacity and Assessment Tools**
3](#statistical-capacity-and-assessment-tools)

[**3.** **The Statistical Performance Index (SPI)**
4](#the-statistical-performance-index-spi)

[**4.** **Conclusions** 11](#conclusions)

[**SPI Scoring Methodology Matrix** 12](#spi-scoring-methodology-matrix)

[**Statistical Performance Index: Technical Description**
16](#statistical-performance-index-technical-description)

**Introduction**
================

It has now been widely recognized that relevant, timely and quality
statistics are essential for evidence-based policy formulation, decision
making and for monitoring and evaluation of development progress. It has
also been acknowledged that the quality of statistics is as good as the
agencies that produce them. Availability of and access to timely and
good quality data are critical to holding decision-makers accountable.
The *United Nations Independent Advisory Expert Group on the Data
Revolution* has gone even further -- arguing that data are a powerful
enabler of innovation for social impact[^1]. Governments, international
agencies, civil society organizations, and the private sector cannot
deliver on their respective mandates without data and statistics.

The overwhelming majority of data for decision-making is produced at the
country level. Through national statistical systems, data is collected,
processed, and disseminated to inform a range of issues -- social,
economic, environmental, and political. These statistics must be
relevant, timely, and credible.

Demands for data is increasing that puts pressure on national systems.
To meet this demand statistical producers need to become more agile.
They must deepen their analytical capacities and find creative ways to
integrate data from new and existing sources to generate their products
and services. Given rising demands, government officials are increasing
their reliance on assessments of their statistical system's capacity.

This note provides a succinct discussion about the World Bank's latest
statistical capacity assessment tool -- the *Statistical Performance
Index (SPI)*.

**Statistical Capacity and Assessment Tools**
=============================================

Statistical capacity is the ability of National Statistical Systems to
meet user needs for relevant and good quality statistics on a timely
manner. A well-functioning statistical system should be able to collect,
analyze, and disseminate high-quality data about its population and
economy. Just producing data, however, is not enough to demonstrate that
the statistical system has the capacity. The indicators, data series and
other outputs must meet the needs of users and must be provided in a
form that supports their widespread use. The data outputs need to be of
good quality, published within a time frame that means the data are
still relevant and provided in a format that users can access and use.
It is also important that statistical systems are open and transparent
about their methods and procedures and provide access to adequate
metadata -- detailed descriptions of the methods and procedures used to
produce the data. A capable statistical system should also be able to
bring about transformation that is generated and sustained over time
from within.

As an object of study, 'capacity' is too broad a concept with many
intangibles and elements that are difficult to measure and often quite
subjective. This fact is also true for the capacity of national
statistical systems that involve different data producing agencies and
departments within a given country. Therefore, it is very difficult to
measure statistical capacity directly.

***Assessing statistical capacity***

Even though it is quite difficult to measure, and it could be costly, it
is necessary to understand and assess the capacity of national
statistical system to identify weaknesses and strengths and to provide
guidance for necessary interventions.

In the absence of direct measures, certain tools are customized to
assess capacity to for different purposes and audiences. In general,
there are four main drivers to assess capacity[^2]:

-   To inform the national planning and strategic process that could
    help national authorities develop strategic plans for the
    improvement of national statistical system. It could provide
    guidance for improving the quality and scope of products available
    to users, identifying priorities for improvement, and bringing
    coherence for donor support.

-   To inform program/project design and implementation process focusing
    on the strengths and weaknesses of the national statistical systems,
    their current human resource capacity, infrastructure and governance
    arrangements.

-   To assess compliance with codes of practice endorsed by relevant
    international and/or regional organizations to assure and maintain
    the standards and Codes of Practice required as part of membership
    to these organizations.

-   To assess the statistical performance of countries on a global scale
    as Global Public Goods in terms of the scope of data products;
    compliance with international standards; periodicity, timeliness and
    the accessibility of results.

Over the years, a number of tools and approaches have been developed
utilizing certain type of questionnaires to be completed by staff from
national statistical system or by experts recruited for this purpose.
The assessment process takes place in the country with involvement of
external experts and relevant staff from the national statistical
system. Such assessments are country specific and could provide a deeper
and better understanding of the national statistical system, but this
process is costly, time consuming and often imposes additional burden on
already weak capacity of statistical systems. It could also result in
different interpretation of questions and hence different answers that,
in turn, could make international comparison difficult.

The SPI is one of these tools that provides a globally consistent and
comparable assessment of country statistical systems by focusing on a
smaller set of indicators and using publicly available and accessible
information.

Irrespective of the specific purpose, interventions derived from SPI
assessments have the same long-term objective -- a national statistical
system that should be able to sustainably collect, analyze, and
disseminate high-quality data about its population and economy to inform
evidence-based policy making and monitoring and evaluating development
programs. No single assessment tool can cover all of these aspects, but
each tool should cover as many of these elements as possible, consistent
with the purpose it is trying to serve in an objective and
cost-effective way.

Resource-intensive country assessments lack cross-country comparability
and are difficult to summarize. Moreover, given the degree of
subjectivity associated with in-depth assessments, different assessors
could arrive at a different overall summary.

Given the difficulties of synthesizing detailed assessments to determine
progress on a global scale, there is an understandable desire to form a
single composite index drawing from publicly available information. The
SPI in conjunction with Country Statistical Profiles provide the means
to compare countries and to track performance over time.

**The Statistical Performance Index (SPI)**
===========================================

The SPI framework is designed to capture different aspects of national
statistical capacity by employing most relevant and representative
variables that are publicly available. The SPI can be used to gauge
statistical performance of individual countries over time or
cross-country comparisons of performance at a point in time.

The SPI aims to provide an objective, justifiable/verifiable assessment
of the statistical performance of countries over time by using publicly
available information from international agencies and country websites
that were produced by national statistical systems. The SPI framework
helps countries and development partners identify the strengths and
weaknesses of national statistical systems and areas of potential
improvements. It could also provide actionable guidance for national
statistical systems in areas that may require further and deeper
assessment.

Key characteristics of the SPI are:

-   Uses only publicly accessible data

-   Transparent methodology

-   Easily replicable

-   Provides a long-time series to track progress in performance

-   Captures outcomes and supporting elements

-   Reflects the SDGs.

-   Facilitates at-a-glance comparisons on a global scale

A recent paper by Cameron et al. (2019) provides the conceptual
foundation for SPI in measuring the ability of NSS to produce high
quality data to inform national and international policy decisions

***SPI Methodology***

Due to their complex and multi-dimensional nature socio-economic
phenomena cannot be measured by a single descriptive indicator. Instead,
generally a composite index method is utilized to measure and understand
such phenomena.

The development of a composite index is a quite complex process that
involves several well-defined stages that involve various alternatives
and possibilities, where decisions of the developer could have a
significant impact on the quality and reliability of the result. The
main problems may arise in the choice of methodological framework, the
selection of representative indicators, the availability of the data,
and the aggregation and weighting method. Therefore, the validity of any
composite index depends, to a large extend, on the strategic objectives
and the purpose of the index.

In constructing a measure that is policy relevant it is helpful to
follow a series of basic steps.

The first step asks the question: what phenomenon is being measured? A
clear conception helps orient the process by which the measure is
assembled and will prove valuable in communicating its underlying
meaning.

The second step asks: for what purpose or purposes is the index being
sought? Knowing how the index will be used can greatly affect subsequent
choices in its construction, and its eventual suitability. In
particular, it will help define the unit of analysis both for data
gathering and reporting purposes.

The third step identifies a list of essential characteristics, or
desiderata, that the methodology should exhibit. This list of
"pre-axioms" helps orient the construction process and define what
success means.

A fourth step identifies the conceptual space in which measurement is to
take place. If there are multiple conceptual dimensions, consideration
must also be given to the relative importance of each.

The fifth step selects the form of the variables to be used and the
aggregation method to be employed -- how the variables are to be
combined into an overall measure.

The sixth step identifies a set of axioms that the resulting index
should satisfy to have the greatest practical utility. Axioms are not
sterile mathematical requirements, but rather contain the salient
nuggets of policy required of the index: which aspects of the data
should be ignored, which should be reflected, and helpful consistency
requirements over subsets of data. Together, these six steps comprise
the core theoretical elements of our proposed measurement technology.

***Characteristics of the Statistical Performance Index (SPI)***

Constructing a measure of statistical capacity entails many distinct
choices that can appear to be arbitrary and unrelated to one another if
no context is provided. A set of desired characteristics, or criteria,
can provide the guiding principles that help organize these choices to
obtain a relevant and useful measurement tool. SPI is designed to
satisfy seven criteria. The SPI should be:

1.  *Simple*. It must be understandable and easy to describe

2.  *Coherent*. It must conform to a common-sense notion of what is
    being measured

3.  *Motivated*. It must fit the purpose for which it is being developed

4.  *Rigorous*. It must be technically solid

5.  *Implementable*. It must be operationally viable

6.  *Replicable*. It must be easily replicable

7.  *Incentive Compatible*. It must respect country incentives

The first characteristic speaks to the simplicity of a measurement
approach, and to the ease with which it might be communicated. An index
or method that is more easily understood allows stakeholders to evaluate
its qualities for themselves. If indicators are vaguely defined or
sourced, then the interpretation of an index can be superficially clear,
but actually obscure. This aspect of the requirement is facilitated by
having online data sources and adequate documentation to offer a clear
provenance for each indicator. Transparency of the measure and its
components is a key characteristic of an index of statistical capacity,
which will promote independent confirmation of its findings, and support
its credibility.

The second characteristic of coherence speaks to the measure's
authenticity in capturing the phenomenon it aims to measure. Simply put,
one should be able to describe in plain language the underlying concept
of what is being measured by the index, and then argue that this concept
is indeed a credible version of what needs to be measured. The SPI will
measure a nation's statistical performance by examining its products and
processes.

The third desideratum considers the extent to which the index fulfills
the purpose for which it has been constructed. As noted above, the
purpose of a statistical capacity index is to accurately and timely
measure a country's statistical capacity. In creating the index, it is
important to keep the motivating objectives in mind, and work towards
their achievement.

The fourth characteristic addresses the rigor of the methodology
embodied in the measure. Much of this concerns the aggregation method
employed and the axioms that might be satisfied by an index of
statistical capacity. To give substance to this general characteristic,
the index should fulfill several axioms that are outlined below.

The fifth characteristic brings real world data collection and choice
into the picture, requiring that the index can be implemented using
available data. Data should be homogenized across countries to ensure
that the individual variables are comparable and suitable for evaluating
countries at all levels of statistical capacity. This criterion also
suggests that the index should be based on publicly verifiable data
compiled, collected, and disseminated by the NSS.

The sixth characteristic also places constraints on data but focuses on
the additional dimension of time. Not only should the index be able to
be calculated and compared across countries at a given point in time
but, consistent with its purpose, it should also be possible to
construct the index across many points in time.

The seventh and final criterion concerns the interaction between actions
by the NSS and the behavior of the index through time. In essence, a
country should not see its index of statistical capacity fall when the
only movement between time periods is an improvement in individual
variables. Incentive compatibility suggests using fixed or absolute
targets that link the measure to actual progress.

The SPI also satisfies **three axioms**[^3]**.** The **symmetry axiom**
requires that the index value is unaffected when variable levels are
switched. The **dominance axiom** requires that the index value rises
whenever one variable rises from 0 to 1 and the rest of the variables do
not fall in value. The **subgroup decomposability axiom** allows the
index to be divided into salient sub-indices and linked back to the
original index for policy analysis.

Taken together, the criteria and axioms provide a theoretical framework
that guides indicator selection and informs how indicators are
aggregated into a summary measure. The SPI is flexible enough to allow
for future revisions as the global data landscape evolves.

***SPI Dimensions***

The concept adopted here views the statistical capacity of an NSS in
terms of its range of products, and the processes it uses to produce and
disseminate them. The production process for statistical outputs has
certain similarities to the traditional production model from economics,
and this analogy might be useful for identifying the salient dimensions
of a statistical capacity measure. The production process begins with a
technology that is used in generating the statistical products, and the
level of this technology is clearly a relevant component of statistical
capacity. The resulting statistical outputs might be divided into two
general categories. First are the intermediate products, which have
direct use for specialists but require additional processing to create
products suitable for general use. For example, a census can be helpful
for policy analysts but must be processed to obtain useful statistics.
Second are the final products, which are available in a form that can be
understood by the public. The key macro statistics of a country would
naturally be viewed as final products. Even after the products have been
created, their existence does not imply that potential users will
actually have access to them. Statistical products may be available to
only a few users, or available to all. The final dimension then covers
the extent to which statistical products are disseminated.

This simple framework helps to identify four coherent dimensions for a
measure of statistical capacity, namely: (i) Methodology, Standards and
Classifications (MSC), which provides information on the technology
being used by the NSS; (ii) Census and Surveys (CS), which describes the
intermediate products of the NSS; (iii) Availability of Key Indicators
(AKI), which focuses on key final products needed for policy; and (iv)
Dissemination Practices and Openness (DPO), which evaluates the extent
to which products are publicly disseminated. It is easy to see that each
of these dimensions is centrally related to the statistical capacity of
an NSS.

***SPI Dimension 1: Methodology, Standards and Classifications (MSC):
***

Internationally accepted and recommended methodology, classifications
and standards provide the basis for national statistical offices (NSOs)
on data integration, facilitating data exchange and providing the
foundation for the preparation of relevant statistical indicators. This
dimension aims to assess whether national statistical systems have the
necessary capacity to adopt and comply with international statistical
standards.

The definition, application and updating of standards is an important
aspect of official statistics at all levels. These may cover issues such
as definitions, classifications, data collection methods, compilation
procedures, and quality control processes. The application of standards
has two main functions. The first is to ensure that data from different
sources can be safely compared. The second is to inform data users that
the data meet a defined technical standard and that confidence can be
placed in the results. At the national level, the responsibility of
setting and applying standards is usually defined by law and is
typically the responsibility of the main national statistical agency.

To keep the dimension simple and comparable across countries, the
selection is based on the categories under IMF SDDS standards that
basically cover the following sectors: real sector (national accounts,
production index, labor market, price indices etc.), fiscal sector
(central government operations), financial sector and external sector
(balance of payments, external debt). Standards in the field of social
statistics were also examined but not selected due to lack of verifiable
and actionable assessment criteria for all countries.

Given the importance of Civil Registration and Vital Statistical (CRVS)
in a country's statistical system, a variable on CRVS is included to
assess the level of completeness. The GSBPM describes and defines the
set of business processes needed to produce official statistics. It
provides a standard framework and harmonized terminology to help
statistical organizations to modernize their statistical production
processes, as well as to share methods and components. Therefore, a
GSBPM variable is included under this dimension.

These 12 indicators cover a major portion of relevant standards and
methodologies. It is assumed that if national statistical systems have
necessary capacity (human, physical and financial), they will be able to
adopt and employ these standards and receive higher scores and rankings.
This dimension could be seen as the basis for the following dimensions,
since the collection of quality statistics, and the dissemination of
them, are to large extent the results of following well established
methods and standards that are in line with international
recommendations.

***SPI Dimension 2: Censuses and Surveys (CS): ***

Data collection is the key responsibility of national statistical
systems where information on a nation's population, economy, health and
other aspects are recorded in an accurate and timely manner. Through
censuses and surveys, sometimes together with administrative systems,
the NSSs collect data and generate aggregate indicators based on the
results. This dimension aims to check the availability and frequency of
key censuses and inter-census surveys. The required frequencies of
censuses and surveys are established based on international
recommendations. In some cases, criteria are adjusted to avoid
unnecessarily punishing the least developed countries where there is
huge disparities among country practices. For example, with labor force
survey and establishment survey, the SPI loosened the criteria compared
to the international recommendation.

This dimension covers 8 indicators on population and housing census,
agricultural census, business census, income and expenditure surveys and
other surveys on agriculture, health, labor force and establishments.

***SPI Dimension 3: Availability of Key Indicators (AKI):***

Transforming source data into statistical outputs (indicators) and
releasing them on a timely basis shows that the statistical systems are
utilizing their capacity in data production. Reporting relevant data to
specialized international agencies on time and getting them published in
their respective databases demonstrates that statistical systems meet
required quality standards and timeliness. Therefore, this dimension
evaluates national statistical systems by reviewing the availability of
country data for the most recent year in international databases. By
looking at the data availability in international databases, it also
makes the assessment cost-effective.

The selection of the indicators under the AKI dimension is based on the
following principles:

-   It should provide some assessment of national statistical
    > performance, i.e. the indicators should be produced by countries;

-   The availability of indicators should be verifiable, with
    > established standards and methodologies in producing the
    > statistics.

-   It should help address the development concerns of countries,
    > especially with SDGs. Nine indicators included in this category
    > overlap to large extent with the Tier 1 SDG list that are
    > conceptually clear, established methodology and standards are
    > available and data regularly produced by countries;

These selected indicators cover key socio-economic and SDG indicators
that have well established standards and methodology in the area of
poverty, health, education, and economic development. It is assumed that
if national statistical systems have capacity in the first two
dimensions they should be able to produce these selected indicators.

***SPI Dimension 4: Dissemination Practices and Openness (DPO):***

Data users are seen as an integral part of the national statistical
system, which is crucial to the improvement of collection, processing
and dissemination of quality data. Therefore, dissemination practices of
statistical systems reflect an important part of the overall statistical
capacity. This dimension is built on the principle that quality
statistics should be delivered to the public in a timely, easily
accessible manner for free. It includes 10 indicators under two
sub-sections: Dissemination capacity of NSO and Openness of Data.

These four dimensions are closely linked and should capture the
production cycle of national statistical systems in collecting,
producing and disseminating quality statistics. By following
internationally recommended standards and classifications, statistical
systems will have the basic foundations for data collection that will
make produced data comparable with other countries. Then, ideally with a
combination of administrative sources and timely censuses and surveys,
statistical systems will collect, process and analyze relevant data and
generate necessary indicators as data products covering different
aspects of households and establishments. Finally, statistical systems
will disseminate these final data products through their official
websites, regular publications and by submitting them to relevant
international organizations. Through this cycle statistical systems
produce statistics that reflect the socio-economic conditions of the
nation and inform decision making.

***SPI Variables and Aggregation***

Once the dimensions have been specified, attention turns to identifying
the variables and selecting an appropriate aggregation method. The
criteria suggest that the variables in an index should be coherent with
the concept being measured; they should be publicly available (i.e.,
drawn from NSSs, rather than from experts or other sources). The
aggregation method should be selected with rigor in mind, including the
axioms or properties that the method satisfies. At the same time, it
should aim for simplicity to maximize general understanding and impact.

A variable is typically derived from a simple "yes-no" question
concerning a normative guideline that a country's NSS should meet. Each
of these "yes-no" questions generate a dichotomous variable having a 0-1
representation. In the case of SPI, in Dimensions 1 and a part of
Dimension 2 the yes-no questions generate three variables with 0-0.5-1
representation, while in the second half of Dimension 2 it has a
0-0.3-0.6-1 representation, and in dimensions 3 and 4 it generates a
variable having a 0-1 representation.

$$Dimension\ \ Score = Weighted\ Score \div Maximum\ Dimension\ Score \times 100$$

The indicator selection process is guided by conventions of
international agencies, expert opinions on statistical performance and
the principles of SDGs. However, given the cost and time constraints and
the accuracy concerns of assessment, trade-offs have to be made to build
an actionable, cost-effective and internationally comparable index.

One such trade-off is the equal weighting of each dimension and
individual indicator, even though some of them may be more important
than others or countries may assign higher priority to some than others.
The equal weighting selection may be, to some extent subjective, partly
failing to address the relative importance of the dimensions and
indicators. This could be checked by simulations that will show the
sensitivity of SPI scores and rankings in relation to alternative
weights.

When variables are dichotomous (or can be dichotomized), a measurement
approach called a "counting method" is applicable and, indeed, has
become standard for many types of measurement exercises. This method is
used here to aggregate the scores of four dimensions into an overall SPI
score and to create the composite index. Hence:

$$\text{Total\ SPI\ Score\ } = (MSC + CS + DPO + AKI)/4$$

Each of the four dimensions has a scale of 1-100 and are aggregated into
a total score which also ranges from 1 to 100. More information on the
theoretical aspects of the SPI can be found in Cameron et al (2019).

***Limitations***

By using publicly available data from international and national
statistical agencies, the SPI collects verifiable information to assess
the statistical performance and outputs of national statistical systems.
Outputs are important in assessing the degree to which countries utilize
their capacity to produce timely statistical products. However, without
country self-reports or a standard questionnaire, it is very difficult
for SPI to verify and rate the institutional structure and resource
aspects of country capacity. For example, human resources and
infrastructure, financing mechanism as well as regulatory framework
constitute key elements of statistical capacity but are very difficult
to objectively measure and verify. To make up with this limitation, all
national statistical offices that are covered by the SPI framework will
be informed about their scores once the SPI is published. Country
reports will be strongly encouraged to improve the coverage and accuracy
of SPI.

The selection of indicators, especially under the Availability of Key
Indicators section, is constrained by the availability of such
indicators and objective verification of them. Some important indicators
on environmental sustainability and energy were not selected due to lack
of established standards and regular country production of data.
Similarly, some important international classification systems, such as
the Central Product Classification (CPC), Consumer Price Index Manual
and some others were not included in the Methodology section because of
the difficulties in verifying country information. This leaves room for
future development of the SPI structure with the progress and
improvements of data availability in the world of statistics.

As with any measurement exercise, there will likely be dimensions
missing from the list. One dimension that could be particularly relevant
for measuring statistical capacity is flexibility, or the ability of an
NSS to adapt to changing circumstances. For example, in response to a
change in national priorities, the NSS may need to alter the schedule or
scope of data production. Alternatively, as new technologies for data
gathering are being developed, international guidelines may change,
requiring the NSS to alter its methods. However, to fully capture the
missing dimension of flexibility, one needs data about circumstances
that have not yet happened, and this directly conflicts with the
implementability desideratum. Likewise, the absence of such data in the
present context leads to the use of more observable variables. All of
these are clearly relevant information for gauging the capacity of an
NSS. However, it is also clear that implementability would once again be
a problem, since gathering accurate, homogenous data on inputs would be
a costly and drawn out task.

***Links to the Bank's long-standing Statistical Capacity Indicator
SCI***

The Bank introduced the Statistical Capacity Indicator (SCI) in 2004 to
provide an overview of the statistical capacity of developing countries
as a global public good. It is based on a diagnostic framework developed
with a view to assessing the capacity of national statistical systems
using metadata information generally available for most countries, and
monitoring progress in statistical capacity building over time. The
framework has three dimensions: statistical methodology; source data;
and periodicity and timeliness. For each dimension, a country is scored
against specific criteria, using information available from the World
Bank, IMF, UN, UNESCO, and WHO. A composite score for each dimension and
an overall score combining all three dimensions are derived for each
country on a scale of 0-100.

Since its launch in 2004, the SCI methodology and coverage have
basically remained the same, while the data landscape has changed
significantly. There has been significant advancement in national
statistical systems on data collection and dissemination practices due
to improvements in IT technology. As a result, the availability and
accessibility of data improved substantially. Meanwhile, the 2030 Agenda
for Sustainable Development and the adoption of Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs) by the UN General Assembly in September 2015 significantly
increased the demand for more data that puts additional requirements on
national statistical systems. The SCI had also needed to adapt to the
changing data landscape and its requirements. Therefore, following the
same general approach the SPI has been developed with broader coverage
of relevant statistical dimensions and indicators, and with an improved
aggregation methodology. It also incorporates a set of indicators that
are linked to the sustainable development agenda.

To link the SPI with SCI and, to some degree, maintain consistency both
tools will be prepared together for a few years (SPI will start from
2016) and SPI will replace SCI starting 2020. Time series comparison
could be done with the availability of data from 2016 for both
indicators.

**Conclusions**
===============

This SPI could be the first step before more resource-intensive
country-specific assessments to inform multi-year improvement plans. The
SPI framework is also flexible enough to allow for future revisions as
the global data landscape evolves. For example, it is possible to
incorporate new indicators such as whether an NSO uses cloud computing
to store their data or implements household panel surveys in the
relevant dimensions without creating major changes to the total scores.
The SPI may also be relevant to the construction of other indexes in
related areas, such as tracking the global SDGs or child development.
Since the SPI will be produced every year, it will provide time series
data for monitoring the progress over time.

**SPI Scoring Methodology Matrix **
-----------------------------------

  **Dimension 1: Methodology, Standards & Classifications (MSC)**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ------------- --------------------
  **\#**                                                                                 **Indicator**                                      **Score 1**                                                                                                                                                              **Score 0.5**                                                                      **Score 0**   **Weight **   **Weighted score**
  1                                                                                      System of National Accounts in use                 SNA2008/ESA 2010                                                                                                                                                         SNA1993/ ESA 1995                                                                  Otherwise     1             
  2                                                                                      National Accounts base year                        Annual chain linking                                                                                                                                                     Within past 10 years                                                               Otherwise     1             
  3                                                                                      Classification of national industry                Latest version is adopted (ISIC Rev 4, NACE Rev 2 or a compatible classification)                                                                                        Previous version is used (ISIC Rev 3, NACE Rev 1 or a compatible classification)   Otherwise     1             
  4                                                                                      CPI base year                                      Annual chain linking                                                                                                                                                     Within past 10 years                                                               Otherwise     1             
  5                                                                                      Classification of household consumption            Follow Classification of Individual Consumption by Purpose (COICOP)                                                                                                      N.A.                                                                               Otherwise     1             
  6                                                                                      Classification of status of employment             Follow International Labour Organization, International Classification of Status in Employment (ICSE-93) or 2012 North American Industry Classification System (NAICS)   N.A.                                                                               Otherwise     1             
  7                                                                                      Central government accounting status               Consolidated central government accounting follows noncash recording basis                                                                                               Consolidated central government accounting follows cash recording basis            Otherwise     1             
  8                                                                                      Compilation of government finance statistics       Follow the latest Government Finance Statistical Manual (2014)/ ESA2010                                                                                                  Previous version is used (GFSM 2001)                                               Otherwise     1             
  9                                                                                      Compilation of monetary and financial statistics   Follow the latest Monetary and Finance Statistics Manual (2000) or Monetary and Finance Statistics: Compilation Guide (2008/2016)                                        N.A.                                                                               Otherwise     1             
  10                                                                                     SDDS/e-GDDS subscription                           Subscribing to IMF SDDS+ or SDDS standards                                                                                                                               Subscribing to IMF e-GDDS standards                                                Otherwise     1             
  11                                                                                     CRVS                                               Vital registration complete                                                                                                                                              N.A                                                                                Otherwise     1             
  12                                                                                     Business process                                   GSBPM is in use                                                                                                                                                          N.A                                                                                Otherwise     1             
  **Maximum category score: 12**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
  $$MSC\ Country\ \ Score = Weighted\ Score \div Maximum\ Category\ Score \times 100$$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              

  **Dimension 2: Censuses and Surveys (CS)**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- -------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------ --------------------------- -------------------- --------------------
  **Censuses**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         
  ** \#**                                                                               ** Indicator**                                                                **Score 1**                                                          **Score 0.5**                                                 **Score 0**                                                  **Weight **                 **Weighted score**   
  1                                                                                     Population & Housing census                                                   Population census done within last 10 years                          Population census done within last 20 years                   Otherwise                                                    1                                                
  2                                                                                     Agriculture census                                                            Agriculture census done within last 10 years                         Agriculture census done within last 20 years                  Otherwise                                                    1                                                
  3                                                                                     Business/establishment census                                                 Business/establishment census done within last 10 years              Business/establishment census done within last 20 years       Otherwise                                                    1                                                
  **Surveys**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
  ** \#**                                                                               ** Indicator**                                                                **Score 1**                                                          **Score 0.6**                                                 **Score 0.3**                                                **Score 0**                 **Weight **          **Weighted score**
  4                                                                                     Household Survey on income/consumption/expenditure/budget/Integrated Survey   3 or more household surveys done within past 10 years                2 household surveys done within past 10 years;                1 household survey done within past 10 years;                None within past 10 years   1                    
  5                                                                                     Agriculture survey                                                            3 or more agriculture surveys done within past 10 years              2 agriculture surveys done within past 10 years;              1 agriculture survey done within past 10 years;              None within past 10 years   1                    
  6                                                                                     Labor Force Survey                                                            3 or more labor force surveys done within past 10 years              2 labor force surveys done within past 10 years;              1 labor force survey done within past 10 years;              None within past 10 years   1                    
  7                                                                                     Health/Demographic survey                                                     3 or more health surveys done within past 10 years                   2 health surveys done within past 10 years;                   1 health survey done within past 10 years;                   None within past 10 years   1                    
  8                                                                                     Business/establishment survey                                                 3 or more business/establishment surveys done within past 10 years   2 business/establishment surveys done within past 10 years;   1 business/establishment survey done within past 10 years;   None within past 10 years   1                    
  **Maximum category score: 8**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        
  $$CS\ Country\ \ Score = Weighted\ Score \div Maximum\ Category\ Score \times 100$$                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  

  **Dimension 3: Availability of Key Indicators (AKI)**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ ------------- ------------ --
  **\#**                                                                                                              **Indicator**                                                                               **Score 1 -** Data is available once in three years, prior to reference year   **Score 0**   **Weight**   
  1                                                                                                                   Poverty headcount ratio at national poverty lines/ availability of similar key indicators   Yes                                                                            No            1            
  2                                                                                                                   Mortality rate, under-5 (per 1,000 live births)                                             Yes                                                                            No            1            
  3                                                                                                                   Child immunization (proportion of one-year-old children immunized against measles)          Yes                                                                            No            1            
  4                                                                                                                   Primary completion rate, both sexes (%)                                                     Yes                                                                            No            1            
  5                                                                                                                   Adult literacy rate, population 15+ years, both sexes (%)                                   Yes                                                                            No            1            
  6                                                                                                                   Proportion of population using at least basic drinking water services (%)                   Yes                                                                            No            1            
  7                                                                                                                   Unemployment, total (% of total labor force)                                                Yes                                                                            No            1            
  8                                                                                                                   Manufacturing value added as a proportion of GDP                                            Yes                                                                            No            1            
  9                                                                                                                   Gross capital formation (% of GDP)                                                          Yes                                                                            No            1            
  10                                                                                                                  GDP implicit price deflator (annual % growth)                                               Yes                                                                            No            1            
  11                                                                                                                  Net trade in goods and services (BoP, current US\$)                                         Yes                                                                            No            1            
  12                                                                                                                  Prevalence of undernourishment (% of population)                                            Yes                                                                            No            1            
  **Maximum category score: 12**                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  $$Availability\ of\ Key\ Indicator\ Country\ Score = Weighted\ Score \div Maximum\ Category\ Score\  \times 100$$                                                                                                                                                                                                         

  **Dimension 4: Dissemination Practices & Openness (DPO)**                                                                                                                                                                                        
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ------------- ------------- ------------ --------------------
  **1) Dissemination capacity of NSO **                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  **\#**                                                                                 **Indicator**                                                                                                    **Score 1**   **Score 0**   **Weight**   **Weighted score**
  1                                                                                      NSO has an Advance Release Calendar and it is published                                                          Yes           No            1            
  2                                                                                      NSO has a listing of surveys and microdata sets (or NADA)                                                        Yes           No            1            
  3                                                                                      NSO has a data portal                                                                                            Yes           No            1            
  4                                                                                      Timeseries indicators are available for download in reusable format for free                                     Yes           No            1            
  5                                                                                      Metadata is available providing definition, methodology, standards or classifications for existing data series   Yes           No            1            
  6                                                                                      NSO has conducted a user satisfaction survey                                                                     Yes           No            1            
  7                                                                                      Geospatial data available on relevant agency website                                                             Yes           No            1            
  **Maximum category score: 7**                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
  $$DPO\ Country\ \ Score = Weighted\ Score \div Maximum\ Category\ Score \times 100$$                                                                                                                                                             

$$\text{Total\ SPI\ Score\ } = \ (MSC + CS + DPO + AKI)/4$$

**Statistical Performance Index: Technical Description**
========================================================

1.  **Methodology, Standards and Classifications (MSC)**

    1.  ***System of national accounts in use.** *

The national accounts data are compiled using the concepts, definitions,
framework, and methodology of the System of National Account 2008
(SNA2008) or European System of National and Regional Accounts (ESA
2010). The manual has evolved to meet the changing economic structure,
to follow systematic accounting and ensure international compatibility.
Score is 1 for countries that have adopted the latest manual; 0.5 for
countries that are using the SNA1993/ ESA1995; otherwise, 0.

2.  ***National accounts base year.***

National accounts base year is the year used as the base period for
constant price calculations in the country's national accounts. It is
recommended that the base year of constant price estimates be changed
periodically to reflect changes in economic structure and relative
prices. Score is 1 if annual chain linking is adopted; 0.5 if the base
year is within the last 10 years; otherwise, 0.

***1.3. Classification of national industry.***

The industrial production data are compiled using the International
Standard Industrial Classification of All Economic Activities (ISIC)
Rev.4 and Statistical Classification of Economic Activities in the
European Community (NACE) Rev.2. ISIC Rev.4 is a standard classification
of economic activities arranged so that entities can be classified per
the activity they carry out using criteria such as input, output and use
of the products produced, more emphasis has been given to the character
of the production process in defining and delineating ISIC classes for
international comparability. The manual and classification have changed
to cover the complete scope of industrial production, employment, and
GDP and other statistical areas. Score is 1 for countries adopting the
latest manuals; 0.5 for countries that are using the previous versions
ISIC Rev.3, NACE Rev.1 or compatible classifications; otherwise, 0.

***1.4. Consumer price index base year.***

Consumer Price Index serves as indicators of inflation and reflects
changes in the cost of acquiring a fixed basket of goods and services by
the average consumer. Weights are usually derived from consumer
expenditure surveys and the CPI base year refers to the year the weights
were derived. It is recommended that the base year be changed
periodically to reflect changes in expenditure structure. Score is 1 if
the base year is annual chain linked; 0.5 if the base year is within the
last 10 years; otherwise, 0.

***1.5. Classification of household consumption.***

Classification of Individual Consumption According to Purpose (COICOP)
is used in household budget surveys, consumer price indices and
international comparisons of gross domestic product (GDP) and its
component expenditures. Although COICOP is not strictly linked to any
particular model of consumer behavior, the classification is designed to
broadly reflect differences in income elasticities. It is an integral
part of the SNA1993 and more detailed subdivision of the classes provide
comparability between countries and between statistics in these
different areas. Score is 1 for countries that have adopted COICOP;
otherwise, 0.

***1.6. Classification of status of employment.***

Classification of status of employment refers to employment data that
are compiled using the current international standard International
Classification of Status in Employment (ISCE-93). It classifies jobs
with respect to the type of explicit or implicit contract of employment
between the job holder and the economic unit in which he or she is
employed. Therefore, it aims to provide the basis for production of
internationally comparable statistics on the employment relationship,
including the distinction between salaried employment and
self-employment. Score is 1 for countries that have adopted the ISCE-93
or 2012 North American Industry Classification System (NAICS);
otherwise, 0.

***1.7. Government finance accounting status***

Government finance accounting status refers to the accounting basis for
reporting central government financial data. For many countries'
government finance data, have been consolidated into one set of accounts
capturing all the central government's fiscal activities and following
noncash recording basis. Budgetary central government accounts do not
necessarily include all central government units, the picture they
provide of central government activities is usually incomplete. Score is
1 for consolidated accounting following noncash recording basis; 0.5 for
consolidated accounting following cash recording basis; otherwise, 0.

***1.8. Compilation of government finance statistics.***

Compilation of government finance statistics refers to the Government
Finance Statistics Manual (GFSM) in use for compiling the data. It
provides guidelines on the institutional structure of governments and
the presentation of fiscal data in a format similar to business
accounting with a balance sheet and income statement plus guidelines on
the treatment of exchange rate and other valuation adjustments. The
latest manual GFSM2014 is harmonized with the SNA2008. Score is 1 for
countries adopting the GFSM 2014/ ESA 2010; 0.5 is for countries using
the previous version GFSM 2001; otherwise, 0.

***1.9. Compilation of monetary and financial statistics.***

Compilation of monetary and financial statistics refers to the Monetary
and Financial Statistics Manual (MFSM) in use. It covers concepts,
definitions, classifications of financial instruments and sectors, and
accounting rules, and provides a comprehensive analytic framework for
monetary and financial planning and policy determination. The Monetary
and Finance Statistics: Compilation Guide (2008) provides detailed
guidelines for the compilation of monetary and financial statistics in
addition to MFSM. Score is 1 if countries have adopted the MFSM 2000 or
MFS: Compilation Guide 2008 or 2016; otherwise, 0.

***1.10. SDDS/e-GDDS subscription.***

The Special Data Dissemination Standard (SDDS) and electronic General
Data Dissemination Standard (e-GDDS) were established by the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) for member countries that have or that
might seek access to international capital markets, to guide them in
providing their economic and financial data to the public. Although
subscription is voluntary, the subscribing member needs to be committed
to observing the standard and provide information about its data and
data dissemination practices (metadata). The metadata are posted on the
IMF's SDDS and e-GDDS websites. Score is 1 for countries subscribed to
SDDS+ or SDDS standards; 0.5 for countries subscribed to e-GDDS
standards; otherwise, 0.

***1.11. Civil registration and vital statistics.***

Civil registration and vital statistics record the occurrence and
characteristics of vital events (births, deaths, marriage and divorce
etc.) pertaining to the population and serve as a main source of vital
statistics. This identifies countries that report at least 90 percent
complete registries of vital (birth and death) statistics to the United
Nations Statistics Division and are reported in its Population and Vital
Statistics Reports. Countries with complete vital statistics registries
may have more accurate and timely demographic indicators. Score is 1 if
the country has vital registration complete; otherwise, 0.

***1.12. Business process.***

The Generic Statistical Business Process Model (GSBPM) aims to describe
statistics production in a general and process-oriented way. It is used
both within and between statistical offices as a common basis for work
with statistics production in different ways, such as quality,
efficiency, standardization, and process-orientation. It is used for all
types of surveys, and \"business\" is not related to \"business
statistics\" but refers to the statistical office, simply expressed.
Score is 1 for countries using the GSBPM; otherwise, 0.

2.  **Censuses and Surveys (CS)**

**[Censuses]{.underline}**

***Population and Housing census.***

Population censuses collect data on the size, distribution and
composition of population and information on a broad range of social and
economic characteristics of the population. It also provides sampling
frames for household and other surveys. Housing censuses provide
information on the supply of housing units, the structural
characteristics and facilities, and health and the development of normal
family living conditions. Data obtained as part of the population
census, including data on homeless persons, are often used in the
presentation and analysis of the results of the housing census. It is
recommended that population and housing censuses be conducted at least
every 10 years. Score is 1 if the country has had a census at least once
in the last 10 years; 0.5 if the country has had a census in the last 20
years; otherwise, 0.

***Agriculture census.***

Agriculture censuses collect information on agricultural activities,
such as size of holding, land tenure, land use, employment and
production, and provide basic structural data and sampling frames for
agricultural surveys. Censuses of agriculture normally involves
collecting key structural data by complete enumeration of all
agricultural holdings, in combination with more detailed structural data
using sampling methods. It is recommended that agricultural censuses be
conducted at least every 10 years. Score is 1 if the country has had a
census at least once in the last 10 years; 0.5 if the country has had a
census in the last 20 years; otherwise, 0.

***Business/establishment census.***

Business/establishment censuses provide valuable information on all
economic activities, number of employed and size of establishments in
the economy. Business Register information is establishment-based and
includes business location, organization type (e.g. subsidiary or
parent), industry classification, and operating data (e.g., receipts and
employment). Score is 1 if the country had a census at least once in the
last 10 years; 0.5 if the country had a census in the last 20 years;
otherwise, 0.

**[Surveys]{.underline}**[^4]

***Household survey on income/consumption/expenditure/budget/integrated
survey.***

These surveys collect data on household income (including income in
kind), consumption and expenditure. They typically include income,
expenditure, and consumption surveys, household budget surveys,
integrated surveys. It is recommended that surveys on income and
expenditure be conducted at least every 3 to 5 years. Scores are 1, 0.6,
and 0.3 if a survey is conducted at least thrice, or twice, or once
respectively in the last 10 years; otherwise 0.

***Agriculture survey.***

Agricultural surveys refer to surveys of agricultural holdings based on
the sampling frames established by the agricultural census. These are
surveys on agricultural land, production, crops and livestock,
aquaculture, labor and cost, and time use. Some issues, such as gender
and food security, are of interest to most agriculture surveys. Scores
are 1, 0.6, and 0.3 if a survey is conducted at least thrice, or twice,
or once respectively in the last 10 years; otherwise 0.

***Labor force survey.***

Labor force survey is a standard household-based survey of work-related
statistics at the national and sub-national employment or unemployment
levels, rates or trends. The surveys also provide the characteristics of
the employed or unemployed, including labor force status by age or
gender, breakdowns between employees and the self-employed, public
versus private sector employment, multiple job-holding, hiring, job
creation, and duration of unemployment. Scores are 1, 0.6, and 0.3 if a
survey is conducted at least thrice, or twice, or once respectively in
the last 10 years; otherwise 0.

***Health/demographic survey.***

Health surveys collect information on various aspects of health of
populations, such as health expenditure, access, utilization, and
outcomes. They typically include Demographic and Health Surveys. It is
recommended that health surveys be conducted at least every 3 to 5
years. Scores are 1, 0.6, and 0.3 if a survey is conducted at least
thrice, or twice, or once respectively in the last 10 years; otherwise
0.

***Business/establishment survey.***

The business/establishment survey provides information on employment,
hours, and earnings of employees from a sample of business
establishments including private and public, entities that are
classified based on an establishment\'s principal activity from the
business or establishment census. Establishment surveys include surveys
of businesses, farms, and institutions. They may ask for information
about the establishment itself and/or employee characteristics and
demographics. Scores are 1, 0.6, and 0.3 if a survey is conducted at
least thrice, or twice, or once respectively in the last 10 years;
otherwise 0.

3.  **Availability of Key Indicators (AKI)**

***Poverty headcount ratio at national poverty lines (%)/availability of
similar key indicators.***

National poverty headcount ratio is the percentage of the population
living below the national poverty lines. National estimates are based on
population-weighted subgroup estimates from household surveys. Score is
1 if a national estimate is available for at least one year over a
three-year period, prior to reference year; otherwise, 0.

***Under-five mortality rate (per 1,000 live births).***

Under-five mortality rate is the probability per 1,000 that a newborn
baby will die before reaching age five, if subject to age-specific
mortality rates of the specified year. Score is 1 if data is available
for at least one year over a three-year period, prior to reference year;
otherwise, 0.

***Child immunization, proportion of one-year-old children immunized
against measles (%).***

Child immunization, measles, measures the percentage of children ages
12-23 months who received the measles vaccination before 12 months or at
any time before the survey. A child is considered adequately immunized
against measles after receiving one dose of vaccine. Score is 1 if data
is available for at least one year over a three-year period, prior to
reference year; otherwise, 0.

***Primary completion rate, both sexes (%).***

Primary completion rate, or gross intake ratio to the last grade of
primary education, is the number of new entrants (enrollments minus
repeaters) in the last grade of primary education, regardless of age,
divided by the population at the entrance age for the last grade of
primary education. Data limitations preclude adjusting for students who
drop out during the final year of primary education. Score is 1 if data
is available for at least one year over a three-year period, prior to
reference year; otherwise, 0.

***Adult literacy rate, population 15+ years, both sexes (%).***

Adult literacy rate is the percentage of people ages 15 and above who
can both read and write with understanding a short simple statement
about their everyday life. Score is 1 if data is available for at least
one year over a three-year period, prior to reference year; otherwise,
0.

***Proportion of population using at least basic drinking water services
(%).***

This indicator encompasses both people using basic water services as
well as those using safely managed water services. Basic drinking water
services is defined as drinking water from an improved source, provided
collection time is not more than 30 minutes for a round trip. Improved
water sources include piped water, boreholes or tube wells, protected
dug wells, protected springs, and packaged or delivered water. Score is
1 if data is available for at least one year over a three-year period,
prior to reference year; otherwise, 0.

***Unemployment, total (% of total labor force).***

Unemployment refers to the share of the labor force that is without work
but available for and seeking employment. Definitions of labor force and
unemployment differ by country and refers to national estimate. Score is
1 if data is available for at least one year over a three-year period,
prior to reference year; otherwise, 0.

***Manufacturing, value added (% of GDP).***

Manufacturing refers to industries belonging to ISIC divisions 15-37.
Value added is the net output of a sector after adding up all outputs
and subtracting intermediate inputs. It is calculated without making
deductions for depreciation of fabricated assets or depletion and
degradation of natural resources. The origin of value added is
determined by the ISIC, Rev. 3. Note: For VAB countries, gross value
added at factor cost is used as the denominator. Score is 1 if data is
available for at least one year over a three-year period, prior to
reference year; otherwise, 0.

***Gross capital formation (% of GDP).***

Gross capital formation (formerly gross domestic investment) consists of
outlays on additions to the fixed assets of the economy plus net changes
in the level of inventories. Fixed assets include land improvements
(fences, ditches, drains, and so on); plant, machinery, and equipment
purchases; and the construction of roads, railways, and the like,
including schools, offices, hospitals, private residential dwellings,
and commercial and industrial buildings. Inventories are stocks of goods
held by firms to meet temporary or unexpected fluctuations in production
or sales, and \"work in progress.\" Per the 1993 SNA, net acquisitions
of valuables are also considered capital formation. Score is 1 if data
is available for at least one year over a three-year period, prior to
reference year; otherwise, 0.

***Inflation, GDP deflator (annual % change).***

Inflation as measured by the annual growth rate of the GDP implicit
deflator shows the rate of price change in the economy as a whole. The
GDP implicit deflator is the ratio of GDP in current local currency to
GDP in constant local currency. Score is 1 if data is available for at
least one year over a three-year period, prior to reference year;
otherwise, 0.

***Net trade in goods and services (current US\$).***

Net trade in goods and services is derived by offsetting imports of
goods and services against exports of goods and services. Exports and
imports of goods and services comprise all transactions involving a
change of ownership of goods and services between residents of one
country and the rest of the world. Data are in current U.S. dollars.
Score is 1 if data is available for at least one year over a three-year
period, prior to reference year; otherwise, 0.

***Prevalence of undernourishment (%)***

Population below minimum level of dietary energy consumption (also
referred to as prevalence of undernourishment) shows the percentage of
the population whose food intake is insufficient to meet dietary energy
requirements continuously. Data showing as 5 may signify a prevalence of
undernourishment below 5 percent. Score is 1 if data is available for at
least one year over a three-year period, prior to reference year;
otherwise, 0.

4.  **Dissemination Practices and Openness (DPO)**

**[Dissemination capacity of National Statistical Office
(NSO)]{.underline}**

***NSO has a published Advance Release Calendar.***

This indicator refers to a dissemination practice for relevant
statistical data in accordance to the published advance release
calendar. Its presence provides information on upcoming releases in
advance and creates public awareness; this will lead to more discipline
and accountability from the statistical office. Score is 1 if the
Advance Release Calendar is publicly available and accessible;
otherwise, 0.

***NSO has a listing of surveys and/ or microdata sets (or NADA)
available upon request.***

NSO has a listing of surveys and microdata sets that can provide the
necessary data and reference for follow-up. Upon well-defined request
and procedure per the national law and practice, users and practitioners
can obtain the data collected from the households and businesses when
needed. Score is 1 if the listing of surveys and microdata sets are
available; otherwise, 0.

***NSO has a data portal.***

This indicator refers to a web-based or stand-alone platform or tools
that is maintained by the NSO and provides access to the indicators and
related metadata in systematic way. Score is 1 if the NSO has a data
portal; otherwise, 0.

***Time series indicators are available in downloadable, reusable format
for free.***

This indicator will promote usage among the users and bring
accountability to the NSO. There are several different formats in which
a user can access the data, such as Excel, CSV, and API etc. Score is 1
if the indicators are available for download in reusable format;
otherwise, 0.

***Metadata is available providing definition, methodology, standards or
classifications for existing data series.***

Statistical systems must be open and transparent about their methods and
procedures and provide access to adequate metadata -- detailed
descriptions of the methods and procedures used to produce the data.
Score is 1 if the metadata is available; otherwise, 0.

***NSO has conducted a user satisfaction survey.***

Through this indicator a NSO can improve its engagement and
dissemination practice by seeking regular feedback from users and then
making necessary adjustments. It is also a good practice to continually
monitor the changing data landscape and user needs as well as evolving
technologies. Score is 1 if the NSO conducts user satisfaction survey;
otherwise, 0.

***Geospatial data available on relevant agency website.***

Geospatial data available on relevant agency website refers to
geo-referenced, location-based disaggregated data from satellite.
Geospatial data are often used in combination with administrative level
national and sub-national units. Score is 1 if geospatial data are
available on relevant agency website; otherwise, 0.

1.  

**ANNEX 1: Metadata**

+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| **Dimension 1:  |                 |                 |                 |
| Methodology,    |                 |                 |                 |
| Standards, and  |                 |                 |                 |
| Classifications |                 |                 |                 |
| (MSC)**         |                 |                 |                 |
+=================+=================+=================+=================+
| **Indicators**  | **Requirement   | **Data source** | **Link to data  |
|                 | for full        |                 | source**        |
|                 | score**         |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| System of       | SNA2008/ESA     | World           | <http://data.wo |
| national        | 2010            | Development     | rldbank.org/pro |
| accounts in use |                 | Indicators      | ducts/wdi>      |
|                 |                 | Primary Data    |                 |
|                 |                 | Documentation   |                 |
|                 |                 | (WDI/PDD)       |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| National        | Annual chain    | World           | <http://data.wo |
| Accounts base   | linking         | Development     | rldbank.org/pro |
| year            |                 | Indicators      | ducts/wdi>      |
|                 |                 | Primary Data    |                 |
|                 |                 | Documentation   |                 |
|                 |                 | (WDI/PDD)       |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Classification  | Latest version  | \- United       | <https://unstat |
| of national     | is adopted      | Nations Monthly | s.un.org/UNSD/m |
| industry        | (ISIC Rev 4,    | Bulletin of     | bs/app/DataSear |
|                 | NACE Rev 2 or a | Statistics      | chTable.aspx>   |
|                 | compatible      | Database, Index |                 |
|                 | classification) | of Industrial   | <http://dsbb.im |
|                 |                 | Production      | f.org/Default.a |
|                 |                 |                 | spx>            |
|                 |                 | \- IMF:         |                 |
|                 |                 | Dissemination   |                 |
|                 |                 | Standards       |                 |
|                 |                 | Bulletin Board  |                 |
|                 |                 | (DSBB)          |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| CPI base year   | Annual chain    | \- IMF:         | <http://www.eli |
|                 | linking.        | International   | brary.imf.org/b |
|                 | Weights used    | Financial       | rowse?freeFilte |
|                 | for CPI         | Statistics      | r=false&pageSiz |
|                 | calculation     | (IFS) / Country | e=10&sort=dated |
|                 | sourced with    | notes           | escending&t_7=u |
|                 | Household       |                 | rn%3ASeries%2F0 |
|                 | Budget/Expendit | \- IMF:         | 41>             |
|                 | ure/Consumption | Dissemination   |                 |
|                 | Surveys         | Standards       | <http://dsbb.im |
|                 |                 | Bulletin Board  | f.org/Default.a |
|                 |                 | (DSBB)          | spx>            |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Classification  | Follow          | IMF:            | <http://dsbb.im |
| of household    | Classification  | Dissemination   | f.org/Default.a |
| consumption     | of Individual   | Standards       | spx>            |
|                 | Consumption by  | Bulletin Board  |                 |
|                 | Purpose         | (DSBB)          |                 |
|                 | (COICOP)        |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Classification  | Follow          | IMF:            | <http://dsbb.im |
| of status of    | International   | Dissemination   | f.org/Default.a |
| employment      | Labour          | Standards       | spx>            |
|                 | Organization,   | Bulletin Board  |                 |
|                 | International   | (DSBB)          |                 |
|                 | Classification  |                 |                 |
|                 | of Status in    |                 |                 |
|                 | Employment      |                 |                 |
|                 | (ICSE-93) /     |                 |                 |
|                 | 2012 North      |                 |                 |
|                 | American        |                 |                 |
|                 | Industry        |                 |                 |
|                 | Classification  |                 |                 |
|                 | System (NAICS)  |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Central         | Consolidated    | IMF: Government | <http://www.eli |
| government      | Central         | Finance         | brary.imf.org/b |
| accounting      | Government      | Statistics      | rowse?freeFilte |
| status          | accounting      | (GFS)           | r=false&pageSiz |
|                 | follows noncash | Yearbook/Guide  | e=10&sort=dated |
|                 | recording basis | to country      | escending&t_7=u |
|                 |                 | tables / Table  | rn%3ASeries%2F0 |
|                 |                 | B: Basis of     | 43>             |
|                 |                 | Recording for   |                 |
|                 |                 | Latest Year     | <http://www.eli |
|                 |                 | Reported        | brary.imf.org/b |
|                 |                 |                 | rowse?freeFilte |
|                 |                 |                 | r=false&pageSiz |
|                 |                 |                 | e=10&sort=dated |
|                 |                 |                 | escending&t_7=u |
|                 |                 |                 | rn%3ASeries%2F0 |
|                 |                 |                 | 43>             |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Compilation of  | Follow the      | \- IMF:         | <http://dsbb.im |
| government      | latest          | Dissemination   | f.org/Default.a |
| finance         | Government      | Standards       | spx>            |
| statistics      | Finance         | Bulletin Board  |                 |
|                 | Statistical     | (DSBB)          |                 |
|                 | Manual (2014)   |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Compilation of  | Follow the      | IMF:            | <http://www.eli |
| monetary and    | latest Monetary | International   | brary.imf.org/b |
| financial       | and Finance     | Financial       | rowse?freeFilte |
| statistics      | Statistics      | Statistics      | r=false&pageSiz |
|                 | Manual (2000)   | (IFS) / Country | e=10&sort=dated |
|                 | (MFSM) or       | notes           | escending&t_7=u |
|                 | Monetary and    |                 | rn%3ASeries%2F0 |
|                 | Finance         |                 | 43>             |
|                 | Statistics:     |                 |                 |
|                 | Compilation     |                 |                 |
|                 | Guide           |                 |                 |
|                 | (2008/2016)     |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| SDDS/e-GDDS     | Subscribing to  | IMF:            | <http://dsbb.im |
| subscription    | IMF SDDS+/SDDS  | Dissemination   | f.org/Pages/GDD |
|                 | standards       | Standards       | S/Home.aspx>    |
|                 |                 | Bulletin Board  |                 |
|                 |                 | (DSBB)          |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| CRVS            | Vital           | WDI book:       | <http://data.wo |
|                 | registration    | Primary Data    | rldbank.org/pro |
|                 | complete        | Documentation   | ducts/wdi>      |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Business        | GSBPM is in use | \- United       | <https://statsw |
| process         |                 | Nations         | iki.unece.org/d |
|                 |                 | Industrial      | isplay/GSBPM/Un |
|                 |                 | Development     | ited+Nations+In |
|                 |                 | Organization    | dustrial+Develo |
|                 |                 | (UNIDO)         | pment+Organizat |
|                 |                 |                 | ion+(UNIDO):+us |
|                 |                 | \- United       | e+of+GSBPM>     |
|                 |                 | Nations         |                 |
|                 |                 | Economic        | <https://statsw |
|                 |                 | Commission for  | iki.unece.org/d |
|                 |                 | Europe (UNECE)  | isplay/GSBPM/Ca |
|                 |                 |                 | se+Studies+of+M |
|                 |                 |                 | etadata+use+wit |
|                 |                 |                 | h+GSBPM+and+GSI |
|                 |                 |                 | M>              |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+

+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| **Dimension 2:  |                 |                 |                 |
| Censuses and    |                 |                 |                 |
| Surveys (CS)**  |                 |                 |                 |
+=================+=================+=================+=================+
| **Indicators**  | **Requirement   | **Data source** | **Link to data  |
|                 | for full        |                 | source**        |
|                 | score**         |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Population &    | Population      | United Nations  | <https://unstat |
| Housing census  | census done     | Statistical     | s.un.org/unsd/d |
|                 | within last 10  | Division        | emographic/sour |
|                 | years           | (UNSD): 2020    | ces/census/cens |
|                 |                 | World           | usdates.htm#ASI |
|                 |                 | Population and  | A>              |
|                 |                 | Housing Census  |                 |
|                 |                 | Programme       |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Agriculture     | a) Agriculture  | Food and        | http://www.fao. |
| census          | census done     | Agriculture     | org/world-censu |
|                 | within last 10  | Organisation    | s-agriculture/c |
|                 | years           | (FAO): World    | ountries/en/    |
|                 |                 | Programme for   |                 |
|                 |                 | the Census of   |                 |
|                 |                 | Agriculture     |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Business/establ | a\) Business/   | NSO websites    | <https://unstat |
| ishment         | establishment   |                 | s.un.org/home/n |
| census          | census done     |                 | so_sites/>      |
|                 | within last     |                 |                 |
|                 | 10 years        |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Household       | a\) 3 or more   | \- Microdata    | [http://microda |
| Survey on       | household       | library / World | ta.worldbank.or |
| income/         | surveys done    | Bank,           | g/index.php/hom |
| consumption/    | within past     | Development     | e]{.underline}  |
| expenditure/    | 10 years;       | Research Group  |                 |
| budget/         |                 |                 | <http://iresear |
| Integrated      |                 | \- PovcalNet    | ch.worldbank.or |
| Survey          |                 |                 | g/PovcalNet/pov |
|                 |                 | \-              | OnDemand.aspx>  |
|                 |                 | International   |                 |
|                 |                 | Household       | <http://catalog |
|                 |                 | Survey Network  | .ihsn.org/index |
|                 |                 | Catalog (IHSN). | .php/catalog>   |
|                 |                 |                 |                 |
|                 |                 | \- IHSN Gender  | <http://datanav |
|                 |                 | Data Navigator  | igator.ihsn.org |
|                 |                 |                 | />              |
|                 |                 |                 |                 |
|                 |                 |                 | <https://survey |
|                 |                 |                 | scorecardqa.wor |
|                 |                 |                 | ldbank.org/inde |
|                 |                 |                 | x.php/>         |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Agriculture     | a\) 3 or more   | \- Microdata    | [http://microda |
| survey          | agriculture     | library / World | ta.worldbank.or |
|                 | surveys done    | Bank,           | g/index.php/hom |
|                 | within past     | Development     | e]{.underline}  |
|                 | 10 years;       | Research Group  |                 |
|                 |                 |                 | <http://catalog |
|                 |                 | \- PovcalNet    | .ihsn.org/index |
|                 |                 |                 | .php/catalog>   |
|                 |                 | \-              |                 |
|                 |                 | International   | http://datanavi |
|                 |                 | Household       | gator.ihsn.org/ |
|                 |                 | Survey Network  |                 |
|                 |                 | Catalog (IHSN)  | <http://iresear |
|                 |                 |                 | ch.worldbank.or |
|                 |                 | \- IHSN Gender  | g/PovcalNet/pov |
|                 |                 | Data Navigator  | OnDemand.aspx>  |
|                 |                 |                 | [ ]{.underline} |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Labor Force     | a\) 3 or more   | International   | <http://www.ilo |
| Survey          | labor force     | Labour          | .org/surveydata |
|                 | surveys done    | Organisation    | /index.php/cata |
|                 | within past     | (ILO) Microdata | log/central#_r= |
|                 | 10 years;       | Repository      | &collection=&co |
|                 |                 |                 | untry=94,140&dt |
|                 |                 |                 | ype=&from=2006& |
|                 |                 |                 | page=1&ps=&sid= |
|                 |                 |                 | &sk=&sort_by=na |
|                 |                 |                 | tion&sort_order |
|                 |                 |                 | =&to=2016&topic |
|                 |                 |                 | =&view=s&vk>[=] |
|                 |                 |                 | {.underline}    |
|                 |                 |                 |                 |
|                 |                 |                 | <http://www.ilo |
|                 |                 |                 | .org/dyn/lfsurv |
|                 |                 |                 | ey/lfsurvey.lis |
|                 |                 |                 | t?p_lang=en>    |
|                 |                 |                 |                 |
|                 |                 |                 | <http://microda |
|                 |                 |                 | ta.worldbank.or |
|                 |                 |                 | g/index.php/hom |
|                 |                 |                 | e>              |
|                 |                 |                 |                 |
|                 |                 |                 | <http://catalog |
|                 |                 |                 | .ihsn.org/index |
|                 |                 |                 | .php/catalog>   |
|                 |                 |                 |                 |
|                 |                 |                 | <http://datanav |
|                 |                 |                 | igator.ihsn.org |
|                 |                 |                 | />              |
|                 |                 |                 |                 |
|                 |                 |                 | <http://iresear |
|                 |                 |                 | ch.worldbank.or |
|                 |                 |                 | g/PovcalNet/pov |
|                 |                 |                 | OnDemand.aspx>  |
|                 |                 |                 | [ ]{.underline} |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Health/Demograp | a\) 3 or more   | \- Demographic  | <https://dhspro |
| hic             | health          | and Health      | gram.com/What-W |
| survey          | surveys done    | Surveys (DHS)   | e-Do/survey-sea |
|                 | within past     |                 | rch.cfm?pgType= |
|                 | 10 years        | \- Multiple     | main&SrvyTp=typ |
|                 |                 | Indicator       | e>              |
|                 |                 | Cluster Survey  |                 |
|                 |                 | (MICS)          | <http://mics.un |
|                 |                 |                 | icef.org/survey |
|                 |                 |                 | s>              |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Business/establ | a\) 3 or more   | \- Microdata    | [http://microda |
| ishment         | business/establ | library / World | ta.worldbank.or |
| survey          | ishment         | Bank,           | g/index.php/hom |
|                 | surveys done    | Development     | e]{.underline}  |
|                 | within past     | Research Group  |                 |
|                 | 10 years        |                 | <http://catalog |
|                 |                 | \- PovcalNet    | .ihsn.org/index |
|                 |                 |                 | .php/catalog>   |
|                 |                 | \-              |                 |
|                 |                 | International   | <http://datanav |
|                 |                 | Household       | igator.ihsn.org |
|                 |                 | Survey Network  | />              |
|                 |                 | Catalog (IHSN)  |                 |
|                 |                 |                 | <http://iresear |
|                 |                 | \- IHSN Gender  | ch.worldbank.or |
|                 |                 | Data Navigator  | g/PovcalNet/pov |
|                 |                 |                 | OnDemand.aspx>  |
|                 |                 |                 | [ ]{.underline} |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+

  **Dimension 3: Availability of Key Indicators (AKI)**                                                                                                                             
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ -------------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  **Indicators**                                                                             **Requirement for full score**                                       **Data source**   **Link to data source**
  Poverty headcount ratio at national poverty lines/availability of similar key indicators   a\) Data is available once in three years, prior to reference year   WDI database      <http://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?source=world-development-indicators>
  Prevalence of undernourishment                                                             a\) Data is available once in three years, prior to reference year   WDI database      <http://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?source=world-development-indicators>
  Under-five mortality rate                                                                  a\) Data is available once in three years, prior to reference year   WDI database      <http://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?source=world-development-indicators>
  Child immunization (proportion of one-year-old children immunized against measles)         a\) Data is available once in three years, prior to reference year   WDI database      <http://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?source=world-development-indicators>
  Primary completion rate, both sexes (%)                                                    a\) Data is available once in three years, prior to reference year   WDI database      <http://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?source=world-development-indicators>
  Adult literacy rate, population 15+ years, both sexes (%)                                  a\) Data is available once in three years, prior to reference year   WDI database      <http://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?source=world-development-indicators>
  Proportion of population using at least basic drinking water services (%)                  a\) Data is available once in three years, prior to reference year   WDI database      <http://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?source=world-development-indicators>
  Unemployment, total (% of total labor force)                                               a\) Data is available once in three years, prior to reference year   WDI database      <http://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?source=world-development-indicators>
  Manufacturing value added as a proportion of GDP                                           a\) Data is available once in three years, prior to reference year   WDI database      <http://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?source=world-development-indicators>
  Gross capital formation (% of GDP)                                                         a\) Data is available once in three years, prior to reference year   WDI database      <http://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?source=world-development-indicators>
  GDP implicit price deflator (annual % growth)                                              a\) Data is available once in three years, prior to reference year   WDI database      <http://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?source=world-development-indicators>
  Net trade in goods and services (BoP, current US\$)                                        a\) Data is available once in three years, prior to reference year   WDI database      <http://databank.worldbank.org/data/reports.aspx?source=world-development-indicators>

+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| **Dimension 4:  |                 |                 |                 |
| Dissemination   |                 |                 |                 |
| Practices and   |                 |                 |                 |
| Openness        |                 |                 |                 |
| (DPO)**         |                 |                 |                 |
+=================+=================+=================+=================+
| **Indicators**  | **Requirement   | **Data source** | **Link to data  |
|                 | for full        |                 | source**        |
|                 | score**         |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| NSO has an      | Yes             | NSO websites    | <https://unstat |
| Advance Release |                 |                 | s.un.org/home/n |
| Calendar and it |                 |                 | so_sites/>      |
| is published    |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| NSO has a       | Yes             | NSO websites /  | <https://unstat |
| listing of      |                 | Accelerated     | s.un.org/home/n |
| surveys and     |                 | Data Program of | so_sites/>      |
| microdata sets  |                 | IHSN            |                 |
| (or NADA)       |                 |                 | <http://www.adp |
|                 |                 |                 | .ihsn.org/count |
|                 |                 |                 | ry_activities>  |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| NSO has a data  | Yes             | NSO websites    | <https://unstat |
| portal          |                 |                 | s.un.org/home/n |
|                 |                 |                 | so_sites/>      |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Timeseries      | Yes             | NSO websites    | <https://unstat |
| indicators are  |                 |                 | s.un.org/home/n |
| available for   |                 |                 | so_sites/>      |
| download in     |                 |                 |                 |
| reusable format |                 |                 |                 |
| for free        |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Metadata is     | Yes             | NSO websites    | <https://unstat |
| available       |                 |                 | s.un.org/home/n |
| providing       |                 |                 | so_sites/>      |
| definition,     |                 |                 |                 |
| methodology,    |                 |                 |                 |
| standards or    |                 |                 |                 |
| classifications |                 |                 |                 |
| for existing    |                 |                 |                 |
| data series     |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| NSO has         | Yes             | NSO websites    | <https://unstat |
| conducted a     |                 |                 | s.un.org/home/n |
| user            |                 |                 | so_sites/>      |
| satisfaction    |                 |                 |                 |
| survey          |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+
| Geospatial data | Yes             | NSO websites    | <https://unstat |
| available on    |                 |                 | s.un.org/home/n |
| relevant agency |                 |                 | so_sites/>      |
| website         |                 |                 |                 |
+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+-----------------+

[^1]: http://www.undatarevolution.org/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/IEAG-Data-Revolution\_TORs\_final.pdf

[^2]: http://www.paris21.org/sites/default/files/UNSC%20P21%202017%20FInal%203%20March%202017.pptx

[^3]: See for proofs, axiomatics, and a numerical example Grant J.
    Cameron, Hai-Anh H. Dang, Mustafa Dinc, James Foster and Michael M.
    Lokshin, 2019, Measuring the Statistical Capacity of Nations, WB
    Policy Research Working Paper 8693, Annex 1,
    <http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/304431546956224461/pdf/WPS8693.pdf>

[^4]: We have focused on surveys conducted only by the National
    Statistics Offices, to measure the performance at the national and
    local level.
